The system of astrology divides
an entire cycle, a whole cycle,
into various parts.
With the zodiac, we divide
the circle into 12 parts.
There are 12 signs
to the zodiac.
However, we can
divide the zodiac up
into four different segments,
which are called the elements--
fire, earth, air, and water.
Each sign is a member of
one of these four elements.
And in fact, these elements--
fire, earth, air, and water--
date back to the
Greek period, where
this was used to understand
the nature of each individual.
And it was based upon a concept
of different bodies, body
types.
And "humors" was the
word that the Greeks used
to define these four types.
Carl Jung, the famous
20th century astrologer,
developed an astrology that
we call Jungian astrology
but he called
analytical psychology,
the psychology of four types.
He based his psychology on the
Greek understanding of the four
elements-- fire,
earth, air, and water--
where in the Jungian concept,
fire was direct action, doing.
Earth was practical, was
down-to-earth sensing.
Air was thinking,
up in the intellect.
And water was
emoting or feeling.
It is these four elements that
we astrologers use when talking
about each of the 12 signs.